JWT - JSON Web Tokens

http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-json-web-token

what?
is a compact URL-safe representation format intented for space constrained environments such as HTTP Authorization headers and URL query paramaters. JWTs represent a set of claims as a JSON object that is encoded in a JSON Web Signature or JSON Web Encryption structure
represented as a sequence of base64url encoded values(with all trailing ‘=’ characters omitted.) that are separated by period characters


why?


how?



jwt and csrf?









https://scotch.io/tutorials/the-anatomy-of-a-json-web-token#breaking-down-a-json-web-token
https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8283006
https://ask.auth0.com/t/stealing-jwt-from-authenticated-user/352/2


must use https


1. They're made up of three .-delimited segments: header.data.sig
2. JWT doesn't prescribe any particular sig algorithm. The header indicates by what method the {data} JSON object was signed to get {sig}. A common sig method is hmac-sha
3. JWT only provides a signature to assure that the {data} was not tampered with. The data is not private at all and easily inspected (which is nice for debugging). JWE can provide encryption http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-jose-json-web-encrypti...
And for some: "Why is this useful?". It's useful if my API needs to receive requests to do serious business like delete things or post as your account. How do I know if the request is from a trusted source? Well if the trusted source has a secret key they can use to generate the {sig} according to the {data}, then I can verify that the requester had access to the secret key and therefore trusted.















Cross-domain / CORS: cookies + CORS don't play well across different domains. A token-based approach allows you to make AJAX calls to any server, on any domain because you use an HTTP header to transmit the user information.

Stateless (a.k.a. Server side scalability): there is no need to keep a session store, the token is a self-contanined entity that conveys all the user information. The rest of the state lives in cookies or local storage on the client side.

CDN: you can serve all the assets of your app from a CDN (e.g. javascript, HTML, images, etc.), and your server side is just the API.

Decoupling: you are not tied to a particular authentication scheme. The token might be generated anywhere, hence your API can be called from anywhere with a single way of authenticating those calls.

Mobile ready: when you start working on a native platform (iOS, Android, Windows 8, etc.) cookies are not ideal when consuming a secure API (you have to deal with cookie containers). Adopting a token-based approach simplifies this a lot.

CSRF: since you are not relying on cookies, you don't need to protect against cross site requests (e.g. it would not be possible to <iframe> your site, generate a POST request and re-use the existing authentication cookie because there will be none).

Performance: we are not presenting any hard perf benchmarks here, but a network roundtrip (e.g. finding a session on database) is likely to take more time than calculating an HMACSHA256 to validate a token and parsing its contents.

Standard-based: your API could accept a standard JSON Web Token (JWT). This is a standard and there are multiple backend libraries (.NET, Ruby, Java, Python, PHP) and companies backing their infrastructure (e.g. Firebase, Google, Microsoft). As an example, Firebase allows their customers to use any authentication mechanism, as long as you generate a JWT with certain pre-defined properties, and signed with the shared secret to call their API.








